Introduction to R is derived from an original set of notes describing the S and S-Plus environments 
written in 1990–2 by Bill Venables and David M. Smith when at the University of Adelaide.
R is an integrated suite of software facilities for data manipulation, calculation and graphical display. 
Among other things it has
a. an effective data handling and storage facility,
b. a suite of operators for calculations on arrays, in particular matrices,
c. a large, coherent, integrated collection of intermediate tools for data analysis,
d. graphical facilities for data analysis and display either directly at the computer or on hard-copy, and
e. a well developed, simple and effective programming language (called ‘S’) which includes conditionals, 
    loops, user defined recursive functions and input and output facilities. (Indeed most of the system 
    supplied functions are themselves written in the S language.) 
R can be regarded as an implementation of the S language which was developed at Bell Laboratories by Rick Becker, 
John Chambers and Allan Wilks, and also forms the basis of the S-Plus systems. Our introduction to the R environment 
did not mention statistics, yet many people use R as a statistics system. Our introduction to the R environment did 
not mention statistics, yet many people use R as a statistics system. 
We prefer to think of it of an environment within which many classical and modern statistical techniques have been 
implemented. A few of these are built into the base R environment, but many are supplied as packages. There are about 
25 packages supplied with R (called “standard” and “recommended” packages) and many more are available through the 
CRAN family of Internet sites (via https://CRAN.R-project.org) and elsewhere. Most classical statistics and much of the 
latest methodology is available for use with R. 
There is an important difference in philosophy between S (and hence R) and the other main statistical systems. In S a 
statistical analysis is normally done as a series of steps, with intermediate results being stored in objects. Thus 
whereas SAS and SPSS will give copious output from a regression or discriminant analysis, R will give minimal output 
and store the results in a fit object for subsequent interrogation by further R functions. 

1. Initialize a session using R. 







